[Pages] Add "Module Support in Functions" docs (#7725)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/platform/functions/module-support.md

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Module support
weight: 13
---

> ## Module Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Module support
```

> Pages Functions provide support for several [module types](https://blog.cloudflare.com/pages-functions-with-webassembly), much like [Workers](https://blog.cloudflare.com/workers-javascript-modules/). This means that you can import and use external modules such as WebAssembly (Wasm), `text` and `binary` files inside your Functions code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pages Functions provide support for several [module types](https://blog.cloudflare.com/pages-functions-with-webassembly), much like [Workers](https://blog.cloudflare.com/workers-javascript-modules/). This means that you can import and use external modules such as WebAssembly (Wasm), `text` and `binary` files inside your Functions code.

This page will instruct you ___(how to.../on..)___.
```

Need an explicit sentence describing: what is this page going to be guiding the user to do?

### ECMAScript Modules

> ECMAScript modules (or in short ES Modules) are the official, [standardized](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-modules) module system for JavaScript. They are the recommended mechanism for writing modular and reusable Javascript code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ECMAScript modules (or in short ES Modules) is the official, [standardized](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-modules) module system for JavaScript. They are the recommended mechanism for writing modular and reusable Javascript code. 
```

You're referring to the system, rather than a collection of modules here.

> ECMAScript modules (or in short ES Modules) is the official, [standardized](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-modules) module system for JavaScript. They are the recommended mechanism for writing modular and reusable JavaScript code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ECMAScript modules (or in short ES Modules) is the official, [standardized](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-modules) module system for JavaScript. It is the recommended mechanism for writing modular and reusable JavaScript code. 
```
Matching grammar cases for first and second sentence.

> [ES Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) are defined by the use of `import` and `export` statements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ES Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) are defined by the use of `import` and `export` statements. Below is an example of a script written in ES Modules format:
```

```js
---
filename: src/greeting.ts
---
export function greeting(name: string): string {
  return `Hello ${name}!`;
}
```

> You can import ES Modules within your Functions code the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import ES Modules within your Pages Functions. The below example imports the `greeting` function from the above `greeting.ts` file:
```

Author: ES Module imports is something JavaScript developers are very familiar with, and since there's nothing more going on here, IMHO we can keep explanations short and sweet, especially for such trivial examples like this one. I would propose:
"You can import the above module within your Pages Function like this:" or something along those lines. WDYT?

Author: or we could combine the two examples together and say "Below is an example of a script written in ES Modules format, and a Pages Function that imports that module:"

```js
---
filename: functions/hello.ts
---
import { greeting } from "../src/greeting.ts";

export async function onRequest(context) {
    return new Response(`${greeting("Pages Functions")}`);
}
```

### WebAssembly Modules

[WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/) (or Wasm) is a low-level language that provides programming languages such as C++ or Rust with a compilation target so that they can run on the web. The distributable, loadable, and executable unit of code in WebAssembly is called a [module](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/modules.html).

Here is a basic example of how you can import Wasm Modules inside your Functions code:

```js
---
filename: functions/meaning-of-life.ts
---
import addModule from "add.wasm";

export async function onRequest() {
	const addInstance = await WebAssembly.instantiate(addModule);
	return new Response(
		`The meaning of life is ${addInstance.exports.add(20, 1)}`
	);
}
```

### Text Modules

Text Modules are a non-standardized means of importing resources such as HTML files as a `String`.

> For example, given the following HTML file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import the following HTML file into your Pages Functions code:
```

```html
---
filename: index.html
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello Pages Functions!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

> here is how you can import it inside your Function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following script:
```

```js
---
filename: functions/hey.ts
---
import html from "../index.html";

export async function onRequest() {
	return new Response(
		html,
    {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "text/html" }
    }
	);
}
```

### Binary Modules

> Similarly, Binary Modules are a non-standardized way of importing binary data as an `ArrayBuffer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Binary Modules are a non-standardized way of importing binary data as an `ArrayBuffer`.
```

Reviewer: Can we add a sentence here on what this code block is helping the user accomplish, like we had in the other examples?

### ECMAScript Modules

ECMAScript modules (or in short ES Modules) is the official, [standardized](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-modules) module system for JavaScript. It is the recommended mechanism for writing modular and reusable JavaScript code. 

[ES Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) are defined by the use of `import` and `export` statements. Below is an example of a script written in ES Modules format, and a Pages Function that imports that module:

```js
---
filename: src/greeting.ts
---
export function greeting(name: string): string {
  return `Hello ${name}!`;
}
```

```js
---
filename: functions/hello.ts
---
import { greeting } from "../src/greeting.ts";

export async function onRequest(context) {
    return new Response(`${greeting("Pages Functions")}`);
}
```

### WebAssembly Modules

[WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/) (or Wasm) is a low-level language that provides programming languages such as C++ or Rust with a compilation target so that they can run on the web. The distributable, loadable, and executable unit of code in WebAssembly is called a [module](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/modules.html).

> Here is a basic example of how you can import Wasm Modules inside your Functions code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a basic example of how you can import Wasm Modules inside your Pages Functions code:
```

```js
---
filename: functions/meaning-of-life.ts
---
import addModule from "add.wasm";

export async function onRequest() {
	const addInstance = await WebAssembly.instantiate(addModule);
	return new Response(
		`The meaning of life is ${addInstance.exports.add(20, 1)}`
	);
}
```

### Text Modules

Text Modules are a non-standardized means of importing resources such as HTML files as a `String`.

> To import the following HTML file into your Pages Functions code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import the below HTML file into your Pages Functions code:
```

Reviewer: I used following twice, and it's repetitive, so changed to below instead.

```html
---
filename: index.html
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello Pages Functions!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

Use the following script:

```js
---
filename: functions/hey.ts
---
import html from "../index.html";

export async function onRequest() {
	return new Response(
		html,
    {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "text/html" }
    }
	);
}
```

### Binary Modules

Binary Modules are a non-standardized way of importing binary data such as images as an `ArrayBuffer`.

> Here is a basic example of how you can import the data from a binary file inside your Functions code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a basic example of how you can import the data from a binary file inside your Pages Functions code:
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Module Support
weight: 13
---

## Module Support

> Pages Functions provide support for several module types(// TODO @Carmen link to our blog post), just like Workers [do]((https://blog.cloudflare.com/workers-javascript-modules/)). This means that you can import modules such as `wasm` or `binary` inside your Functions code and they will just work (// TODO @Carmen change wording here)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pages Functions provide support for several module types(// TODO @Carmen link to our blog post), much like [Workers](https://blog.cloudflare.com/workers-javascript-modules/). This means that you can import and use external modules such as WebAssembly (Wasm) and binary files inside your Functions code.
```

Author: thank you Greg <3!

Here is a basic example of how you can import Wasm Modules inside your Functions code:

```js
---
filename: functions/meaning-of-life.ts
---
import addModule from "add.wasm";

export async function onRequest() {
	const addInstance = await WebAssembly.instantiate(addModule);
	return new Response(
		`The meaning of life is ${addInstance.exports.add(20, 1)}`
	);
}
```

### Text Modules

Text Modules are a non-standardized means of importing resources such as HTML files as a `String`.

For example, given the following HTML file:

```html
---
filename: index.html
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello Pages Functions!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

here is how you can import it inside your Function:

```js
---
filename: functions/hey.ts
---
import html from "../index.html";

export async function onRequest() {
	return new Response(
		html,
    {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "text/html" }
    }
	);
}
```

### Binary Modules

Similarly, Binary Modules are a non-standardized way of importing resources such as images, as an `ArrayBuffer`.

> // TODO @Carmen tentative for now. must verify it works

Reviewer 2: Won't work right now, since the default module rules are only covering `.txt`, `.html`, `.bin` and `.wasm` file extensions: https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/blob/4aa4e258d544444f33121cb266a4f44b1ae530d8/packages/wrangler/src/module-collection.ts#L35-L39

Author: yes, that's correct. This is what I was checking yesterday with my question

Author: funky enough tho...if you change the image file extension to .`bin` and keep the content-type to `image/png` in this case, it *will* work 🙃

Author: I've updated to 
```js
---
filename: functions/data.ts
---
import data from "../my-data.bin";

export async function onRequest() {
	return new Response(
		data,
    {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "application/octet-stream" }
    }
	);
}
```

are we good with that?

Reviewer 2: Totally 👍
